What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

git init will transform  a directory into a repository.
The files present in the directory are not commited till the first commit . 
git status to get the repository status.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

Files to be commited next are to be placed in the staging area (git add). 
A file can be removed from the staging area (git reset filename).
git commit -m "Commit message" will automaticaly add the commit message without using a text editor (sublime for example).
( as opposed to git commit that will prompt you to the text editor)


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change? 

First make sure to be in the most current commit (git checkout master)
IMPORTANT: the staging area is a copy of the most recent commits until you add changes to it.
To compare the staging area to the working area : use git diff without any argument. This will show all the changes made that have not been added to the staging area yet.
to compare the staging area to the last commit : git diff --staged
git reset --hard discard any changes in the staging area and in THE WORKING DIRECTORY (as opposed to git reset which only discard the changes in the staging area)
the git commit -m "commit message " 

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

In demoing experimental versions, while not slowing the progesses of the the main branch .

git branch without any argument lists all the existing branches, a * appears next the the branch currently checked out.
git branch newbranchname creates a new branch. 
git checkout newbranchname  to check out the new branch
(git checkout -b newbranchname  combines the 2 previous commands )

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

git log --graph --oneline branchname1 branchenameN
After using git checkout pastcommitnumber, you can start a new branch by using:
git checkout -b newbranchname . 
your are not in the head detach mode anymore, and the head is now folowing your next commits.


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?
before merging, to checkout the branch YOU WANT TO REMAIN ON (here master)
git merge master name_of_the-branch_to_merge_into_master

to show the diff between a commit and its parent, your don't need to find its parent just use : git show commit_number  (useful because after a merge, the commits come form different branches and are listed by sequential order indepedently of their authors, (so commits are not necessarely preceeded by theirs parents) 
>git show commit_number will show all the difference between a commit and its parent.
> git show head  will show the diffrence brought by the last commit (on the head), wether its a merge or just a file or several files  edit.

how to delete the label of a branch which became useless once merged : git branch -d name_branch_to delete

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?
Resolving merging conflicts : parts of the files that have been modified by both merging branches will prevent the merge from happening. (NB before typing the marge command, the head has to be moved to the branch (use checkout Name_of_the_branch, here easy-mode)
See example below : (udates easy-mode branch by puling in the master branch into teh easymode branch)
>git merge master easy-mode
Auto-merging game.js
CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in game.js
Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result

Once the conflict file has been edited and saved then run 
                                                         >git add (the conflictual file (s) )
                                                         > git commit

>git merge --abort : will bring everything back to what it was before the request
>git status
> git add name_of_the_modify_file
either run "git commit")
  (use "git merge --abort" to abort the merge)
>git log -n number: will only show the last number commits

on GitHub : a pull request is askcollaborators to merge a secondary branch into master (WARNING: the pull rquest button offers you by default to pull into the original repo the master branch was forked from ; make sure you select your repo and not the original one from an other author ).
pushing a branch from local to the same remoted branch on GitHub AUTOMATICALY UPDATE THE PULL REQUEST(S) attached to this branch.
WORK FLOW:
- when working locally and willing to share a change with yur team for approval:
  1) create a new branch (different-oil)
  2) checkout the new branch
  3) do the modifs to be approved on this new branch
  4) add 
  5) commit
  6) push this new branch : push origin different-oil (assuming that the remote link to the repo as been created previously (usualy by a clone from GitHub to my local))
  7) on GitHub : checkout the new branch (different oil)
  8) use the pull request button
  9) the team will be messaged of my pool request qnd will comment on it
  10) if the team approves then i can just validate the "merge" (pull request)
  11)if my modif needs more work: go back in the new branch (different-oil)
  12) adress the changes 
  13) push the branch on GitHub (it will update the pull request automaticaly
  14) validate the pull request on Gh
  150 merge my new branch ito master to update master localy
  13) merge my changes into master 







